1. What are the different data types present in javascript ?

Ans. two types - primitive and non primitive
Primive - number, string, boolean, null, bigInt, undefined, Symbol
Non primitive - Objects


2. Difference between “ == “ and “ === “ operators.

Ans. The `==` Operator is used to only compare value wherease `===` operator is used to compare both values and daya types.


3. What is ternary operator in Javascript ?

Ans. ternary operator is an alternative form of if/else statement.


4. What is this in Javascript.

Ans. The “this” keyword refers to the object that the function is a property of.



5. What is Object Destructuring ?

Ans. Object destructuring is a new way to extract elements from an object.


6. What are arrow functions?

Ans. Arrow functions were introduced in Ecma Script. They provide us a new and shorter syntax for declaring functions.


7. What are callback function in javascript ? 

Ans. callback function is a plain js function which passed to another function as argument. it is executed after
  another function has finished executing.



8. What are Higher order function in javascript ? 

Ans. A “higher-order function” is a function that accepts functions as parameters and/or returns a function.



9. What is Promise in Javascript ?

Ans. Promise is a special javascript object. which is used to perform asynchronous operations in javascript. 


10. What is async/await in Javascript ?

Ans. async keyword allows us to write promises-based code as if it was synchronous code.
await keyword is used to wait for a promise. `await` keyword is used within the async block only.



11. What is Hoisting in Javascript ?

Ans. Hoisting is the default behavior of js  where all declarations moved to  top of the current scope before code execution.


12. What is JSON.

Ans. JSON stands for Javasript Object Notation. It is a text format for storing and transporting data.


13. What is DOM?

Ans. DOM means Document object Model. When browser render HTML Document. it create an object's tree based on HTML Document.
 which we called DOM.


14. What do you mean by BOM?

Ans. BOM means Browser object Model. it help us to interact with the browser.

			

15. What is Event bubbling in Javascript ?

Ans. Event bubbling is the method of event propogation, in which event travels from innermost element to the outermost parent element.
Event bubbling is also known as Event Propagation or Event Delegation.


16. What is Event Propagation in Javascript ?

Ans. Event propagation is a way to describe the “stack” of events that are fired in a web browser.

 

17. How can event bubbling can be stopped?

Ans. stopPropagation() method of javascript used for stopping event bubbling.


18. What is differrence between map and foreach.

Ans. The map() method returns a new array, whereas the forEach() method does not return a new array.



Array Methods: 

-----> map - map method is used to iterate over an array and modify its element using a callback function.

-----> forEach - the forEach() method calls a function for each element in an array.

-----> push - The push() method adds new items to the end of an array.

-----> Pop - The pop() method removes (pops) the last element of an array.

-----> Unshift - The unshift() method adds new elements to the beginning of an array.

-----> Shift - The shift() method removes the first item of an array.

-----> Slice - The slice() method returns selected elements in an array, as a new array.

-----> Splice - The splice() method adds and/or removes array elements.



19. What is a “closure” in JavaScript?

Ans. A closure is an inner function that has access to the variables in the outer (enclosing) function’s scope chain.

The closure has access to variables in three scopes; specifically: (1) variable in its own scope,

 (2) variables in the enclosing function’s scope, and (3) global variables.



20. What is Event Loop ?

Ans. The Event Loop is a constently running process that monitors both the callback queue and the call stack.

21. What is Fetch in Javascript ?

Ans. Fetch is a built in method in javascript; it is used to request data from a server.


22. What is Shallow Copy and Deep Copy in Javascript ?

Ans. A deep copying means that value of the new variable is disconnected from the original variable while a shallow copy means that some values are still connected to the original variable.


23. What is Rest Operator in Javascript ?

Ans. The rest operator is used to put the rest of some specific user-supplied values into a JavaScript array.


24. What is Spread Operator in Javascript ?

Ans. The spread operator allows you to spread out elements of an iterable object such as an array.
Uses of spread operator: 

- Copying an array

- Inserting the elements of one array into another